Docs: Edit of README and other topics in Contribute (part 1 of doc quality project) (#85832)
grafana/grafana: contribute/merge-pull-request.md

Keep the summary short and understandable for the community as a whole.

All commits in a pull request are squashed when merged and the pull request title will be the default subject line of the squashed commit message. It's also used for the [changelog](#include-in-changelog-and-release-notes).

**Example:**

`Docs: Change url to URL in all documentation files`

See [formatting guidelines](create-pull-request.md#formatting-guidelines) for more information.

### Assign a milestone

> The Grafana release process requires at least some pull requests to be in a milestone. For example, [generating changelog (release note)](#include-in-changelog-and-release-notes) must be in a milestone.

Author: yes. I have tightened up this whole section to make it more clear that this is an automated process

This makes it easier to track what changes go into a certain release. Without this information, release managers have to go through the tedium of reading through many Git commits. 

That being said, _you don't have to assign a milestone manually_ to a pull request. Instead, when it is merged and closed, a bot will then look for the most appropriate milestone and assign it to the pull request.

The bot-assigned milestone should always reflect the branch into which the pull request is merged. For example:

- For every major and minor release, there is a milestone ending with `.x` (for example, `10.0.x` for the 10.0.x releases).
- Pull requests targeting `main` should use the `.x` milestone of the next minor (or major) version (you can find that version number inside the `package.json` file).
- Backport pull requests should use the version of the target branch (for example, `9.4.x` for the `v9.4.x` branch).

### What to include in changelog and release notes

> At Grafana we generate the [changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) and [release notes](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/release-notes/) based on merged pull requests. Including changes in the changelog (release notes) is very important to provide a somewhat complete picture of what changes a Grafana release actually includes.

Author: changed to "relatively complete"

There's a GitHub action available in the repository named [Update changelog](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/blob/main/.github/workflows/update-changelog.yml) that can be triggered manually to re-generate the changelog and release notes for any release.

Exactly what changes should be added to the changelog is hard to answer but here's some general guidance:

- Include any bug fix in general.
- Include any change that you think would be interesting for the community as a whole.

> - Skip larger features divided into multiple pull requests since they might go into the release blog post (What's New article).

Author: fixed

- Use your best judgement and, if you aren't sure, then ask other maintainers for advice.

> - It's better to include a change in error rather than skip one that should have been there. Err on the side of inclusion.

Reviewer: this sentence is kind of difficult to parse. perhaps this is better: 
"It's better to err on the side of inclusion. Introducing an unnecessary or duplicate change in the changelog is better than leaving out a change."

Author: nice

- Always keep the guidelines in [Format the pull request title](#format-the-pull-request-title) in mind.

An active decision to include a change in the changelog needs to be taken for every pull request. There's a pull request check named **Changelog Check** that enforces this rule. By adding or removing labels on the pull request or updating the pull request title, description, or both, the check is re-evaluated.

#### Skip changelog

If you don't want to include your change in changelog, you need to add a label named **no-changelog** to the pull request.

#### Include in changelog

To include a pull request in the changelog (release notes) you need to add a label named `add to changelog` to the pull request. Then the following additional validation rules are checked:

> - Title must be formatted according to [Format the pull request title](#format-the-pull-request-title)
> - Description must include a breaking change notice if the change is labeled to be a breaking change. Refer to [Breaking changes](#breaking-changes) below for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The title must be formatted according to [Format the pull request title](#format-the-pull-request-title)
- The description must include a breaking change notice if the change is labeled to be a breaking change. Refer to [Breaking changes](#breaking-changes) below for more information.
```

Backporting is a rare exception, should only be done for _critical bug fixes_, and involves the intervention of a Grafana Labs employee.

If your pull request fixes a critical bug and needs to be backported, add it to the "Critical Bug Release" form so the team can approve the backport and know that a release needs to be made. Specify the correct `backport vx.x` labels for the releases to which the fix needs to be backported. Once approved, the backporting process continues.

#### Required labels

We aim to ensure that we don't backport pull requests unnecessarily (for example, when we implement new features). The only scenarios for backporting are typically pull requests that address bugs, have a product approval, or refer to documentation changes.

Backport labels need to be followed by either:

- `type/bug` label: Pull requests which address bugs
- `product-approved` label: Urgent fixes which need product approval, in order to get merged
- `type/docs` label: Docs changes
- `type/ci` label: Changes to the CI automation

> **Note:** You can still backport a pull request after it's been merged.

## Doing the actual merge

> The best time to actually merge the pull request varies from case to case. All commits in a pull request are squashed (hence, we use the GitHub `Squash and merge` button to initialize the merge).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best time to actually merge the pull request varies from case to case. All commits in a pull request are squashed.
```

> The merging process presents you with options for optionally change the commit message before merging. Please remember that developers might use the commit information when reviewing changes of files, doing Git blame, resolving merge conflicts, and so on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the commit message before merging. Please remember that developers might use the commit information for tasks like reviewing changes of files, doing Git blame, and resolving merge conflicts. 
```

> Arguably, there's not really any best practices around this process, but consider the following items:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While there aren't formal best practices around this process, you can consider the following guidance:
```

**Do:**

- Make sure the pull request title is formatted properly before merging. Doing so automatically gives you a good and short summary of the commit.
- Leave `Co-authored-by:` lines as is so that co-authors are credited for the contribution.
- Remove any commit information that doesn't bring any context to the change.

**Consider:**

- Keep any references to issues that the pull request fixes, closes, or references. Doing this allows cross-reference between the commit and referenced issue or issues.

> Finalize the merge by clicking the `Confirm squash and merge` button.

Reviewer: not sure why we're putting UI button text in monocode rather than bold?

> Finalize the merge by clicking the `Confirm squash and merge` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finalize the merge by clicking **Confirm squash and merge**.
```
